Storing the data on the address that is generated by applying a hash function to a key field.

Two main Types
- Internal Hashing:
		For internal files, hashing is typically implemented as a hash table through the use of an array of records.
- External Hashing
		Hashing for disk files is called external hashing. To suit the characteristics of disk storage, the target address space is made of buckets, each of which holds multiple records. A bucket is either one disk block or a cluster of contiguous disk blocks.

- Collision is less severe in external hashing.

What is a Bucket?
	is a one disk block or a cluster of contiguous blocks
	
- Collision resolutions:
			- open addressing: check whether the consecutive adresses are available(ex: linear probing, plus 3 rehab). Works well when load factor is low
			- Chaining: pointer to a linked list contatining the data 
			- multiple hashing: hashing again if the address is occupied(pointers to overflow buckets)
- Hashing index is a secondary index which contains the key and another attribute.(we could search using the other attribute on the index and use the key to find the address)

#### Deffiencies in static hashing
We have to allocate a fixed number of buckets  for the hashing function to work correctly.
Then,
- If the database is shrinking, storage space is wasted
- When the database is growing, performance degrades due to increasing number of overflow buckets
Solution is rearranging the allocation(have to modify the hash function) based on the size of the database periodically
Better solution is Dynamic hashing(modifying the hash function on runtime)